Welcome this lecture is about getting overlap events to handle in C++ so that we will be able to activate
and deactivate our moving platform.
This lecture is not going to be out activating the activating moon platform.
It's just going to be about handling those events.
So we're going to be able to do is if I go and spawn myself up near a platform and walk onto the platform
we'll be able to print out these log messages when we move onto the press pad and when we move off the
pressure pad for activating and deactivating.
So without further ado let's dive in and see how that's done.
So we've got a pretty but somewhat useless platform trigger as it currently doesn't really do anything.
Not very useful is it.
So let's go ahead and start implementing the fundamentals that we need which is to handle the begin
overlap an end overlap of this you box component.
Now the reason I know that's what we need is well one I've got a good memory and second but most importantly
you can go to the trigger volume which we've got in the constructer.
And we go trigger volume arrow.
And then we can look for overlap.
In auto complete.
Or we can just look in the trigger value volume's documentation if you're on x code and you'll notice
that we have an on component begin overlap an on component end overlap I'm going to start with implementing
our own components begin overlap.
Now I'm terrible at remembering the signatures for these things because they're long and unwieldy.
So let's make sure we just go and look it up in the documentation.
This is should be the same if you're on Mac and on windows obviously so this is always the best way
to go.
So on component beginner overlap has a very very complicated implementations signature.
It returns void.
But beyond that that's where the simplicity ends.
We've got all sorts of stuff going in there.
So let's just copy the signature.
No need to memorize that sort of stuff.
It's just wasting your brain space trust me.
So let's go ahead and implement this remember that it has to be a u function.
Now why does it have to be a u function.
Because it is a dynamic event and dynamic events require that you use a u function you can try doing
it as a nonu function and you will get a compile error which is nice and handy so it doesn't fail at
runtime it just fails at compile time.
So I paste in that signature with void so you function.
And now I just need to go ahead and implement that over in my C++ files.
Let's go towards the bottom I think after Tich should do the trick.
Void a platform.
Tree.
LOL calon then that the signature then as new line and my curly braces to complete the act.
And finally inside my.
Begin overlap.
What do I.
Well I want to actually just do a long message for now I will deal with actually activating in deactivating
the platforms in the next video.
But for now let's just do a log temp.
Warning just to make it stand out in the logs and then techs should be something like along the lines
of activated.
Like so.
Okay so that is begin overlap.
Implement it.
Now we just need to register the event call back.
Best place for this is in the constructer.
I've already done my noell check.
So I'm fine to go ahead with the Arrah operator but do do do just get in the habit.
Every time use an arrow operator every time you use a dereferencing star think about is this a pointer.
Could it be null.
Is there even a vague chance it could be null and if there is.
Just make sure it's protected because the worst thing in the world is if you got some changes that you
made in the Editor.
They're not saved and it comes crashing down around your ears because were not.
Pointer error.
So just get in the habit of every time you see one of those arrow operators.
Just double checking yourself.
And I've learned that the hard way unfortunately so we got on components begin overlap with as I said
is a dynamic event which means that we can do an ADD dynamic.
Now you'll notice this is an in the auto complete because they it's a it's a macro somewhere in the
engine code.
It unfortunately does what I complete in a rather awkward way in visual studio so you can have the UNDO
control Z when it tries to autocomplete it that way and then quite simply lets just check out our signature
for and dynamic because sometimes I forget it.
Let's just Google it again and dynamic and dynamic delegates is the one I'm looking for.
You just start to build a Google map of the documentation is what I find.
So we've got to add dynamic has the user object and the function name so the user object.
In this case what it means is the object that we want to call the function on.
In this case it's this simple as that.
And then we want the function the pointer to that function which is going to be to get hold of the address
basically of that function we need the address of operator or the yes the address of operator so it's
going to be this the platform trigger on Carol on on Begin overlap which I'm going to paste in there
close brackets.
Semicolon.
Now that should do the trick.
Let's go ahead and compile and see whether when we go in to that trigger volume we are indeed going
to get our log message out.
It is possible that you will need to move this into begin play instead of the constructor a few students
have had issues with that.
If you aren't seeing the log message then just give that a shot first.
Well good news is that the compile succeeded so let's go into unreal and see if we can trigger something
going into this volume now to avoid having to go through all of the puzzles.
Why can do in this is the needle trick.
As I can click where I want to spawn right click there and I can go play from here in the menu item
that pops up the context menu item and hopefully I should spawn there.
Except that didn't work.
How strange Let me try that again.
Go up to where I want to spawn right click play from here.
Typically that should work.
I know what's going on here is because we've got our man already in the world rather than at a player
starts so if I remove my third person character from the world hopefully that will mean that he's going
to spawn in either to play a start or where I told him to.
So let's try that.
There we go.
So if I walk onto my platform and effort to grab hold of my mouse and go to the output log and just
see where we got our log message.
Nope doesn't look like it.
Now the reason for this is that by default those trigger volumes don't fire those overlap events to
fire the overlap events.
You have to do basically an enabling step now.
One way you can find this out is by going to the BP platform trigger blueprint that we've got as a child
of our platform trigger and we can use that to take a look at some of the properties available on that
trigger volume box Collider.
So if we have a look at that then you will notice that that there is a simulation generates hit events
and a generate overlap events trigger things here.
But it looks like this works should work okay because we've got the component generating overlap events.
So maybe this is a question of having to re compile our blueprint and potentially have to re place it
in the world or reload our map in order to get it to load in.
So let's just check that.
It's enabled on this trigger volume by selecting the track of volume going to its trigger volume its
box Collider component in the details.
Pain in the world in the map.
And go down to the collision and see whether we've got generate overlap events.
Well it does look like we have.
So that does lead me to believe that we may have an issue with it not having reg that the call-backs
yet so I'm going to close down the editor's save the map and load the editor back up again.
Here's my view.
Bring over my folder.
Right.
I've got the new project.
Here it is.
And let me launch up that you project again.
Now you may want to pause while that you project loads it can take a little bit of time.
Okay let's see if now playing from our vantage point we can get on that trigger pad and make it cause
a log message so I'm on the trigger pad now.
And let's see.
I'm going to effort here go into my output log.
Hurrah.
It's warning activated so it does look like the problem there was with the collider not having been
set up because we did it in the in the constructor and the constructor doesn't by default run every
time you hit play because the map is already loaded.
Okay.
So that sheds some light on that.
So now what we want to do is set that up for on end overlap as well.
And that's going to be your challenge.
So here we go it should be a fairly simple repetition of what we've just done.
Register for end overlap events.
First off well basically repeating the steps that we've got check with a log message so when any overlap
happens then puts a log message in there and then remember to reload the map because we're doing this
in the constructor and it doesn't always reload things for you.
Okay.
Pause video have a go.
Okay Welcome back let's give this a shot.
So the first things first is I'm going to set up our call back now.
What is the call-back.
I hear you scream in anguish.
It's another one of those really hard and long ones but it's on component begin overlap.
Similar to that it's on component end overlap so let's Google for component end overlap and find that
documentation that we can use as a starting point.
So on that end overlap we can take it signature we can go over to Visual Studio.
And to the head a file for platform trigger.
And then on right at the bottom just after on overlap begin we are going to do a u function.
Again avoid a return type and paste in that signature.
Has Ah so got any overlap function.
Now let's go to the C++ and implement it so again return type void a platform trigger you know the drill
code along colon then the signature new line curly braces.
And I'm going to copy and paste the log message from above rather than wearing out my fingers and it's
going to be deactivate because that's what's going to happen we're going to be activating the platform
we're going to be deactivating the platform.
Okay.
Now time to register that call back again.
So copy and paste my trigger volume on component begin overlap add dynamic blah blah blah and do a second
one of those except it's not going to be on competitive overlap anymore it's going to be on component.
End overlap wherever that is and then we get now more or less the same except we want the function name
for end rather than for big gain.
So it's all just a slightly shorter line.
Now let's go ahead and build that and see if it's going to work.
And while we do that we might as well go and quit the Ed because we know that we're going to have to
reload the map anyway so let's just get it compiling and get that compilation finished and take that
compart completed.
We didn't get our usual billing sound because the editor was not open so let's open up the editor once
more and hopefully these constructors will get called and we will have a registered event for any overlap
and we will be able to see the log message for both activate and deactivate So when we move in activate
when we work out deactivate and that's what we're going to hook into enabling and disabling our platforms
in the next lecture.
So almost there towards getting active pressure pads enabled.
Okay Ed up and launched Lets go and stand on those pressure pads.
I'm going to right click play from here.
And here I am stand on the pressure pad activated get off deactivated on activated off deactivated and
I could carry on ad nauseum.
Let's go and try out the other pression pad remember that we've got to in this world you may have more
you might have less.
I'm going to right click again and play from here on the other side of the world.
And again the log messages are working as expected hasar we have set up our triggering call-backs in
the next lecture.
We're going to use them to activate and deactivate our moving platforms and I will see you there.